specification/PJON-protocol-specification-v3.0.md, before:

#### Network layer
- PJON (Padded Jittering Operative Network) Protocol specification: **[v3.0](/specification/PJON-protocol-specification-v3.0.md)**
- Acknowledge specification: [v1.0](/specification/PJON-protocol-acknowledge-specification-v1.0.md)
- PJON Dynamic addressing specification: [v2.0](/specification/PJON-dynamic-addressing-specification-v2.0.md)
- PJON known protocols: [list](/specification/PJON-known-protocols-list.md)
#### Data link layer
- PJDL (Padded Jittering Data Link) specification:
[PJDL v2.0](/src/strategies/SoftwareBitBang/specification/PJDL-specification-v2.0.md) - [PJDLR v2.0](/src/strategies/OverSampling/specification/PJDLR-specification-v2.0.md) - [PJDLS v2.0](/src/strategies/AnalogSampling/specification/PJDLS-specification-v2.0.md)
- TSDL (Tardy Serial Data Link) specification: [TSDL v2.0](/src/strategies/ThroughSerial/specification/TSDL-specification-v2.0.md)
- SFSP (Secure Frame Separation Protocol) specification: [SFSP v1.0](/specification/SFSP-frame-separation-specification-v1.0.md)

```cpp
/*
Milan, Italy
Originally published: 10/04/2010
latest revision: 21/03/2018
PJON® protocol layer specification v3.0
Invented by Giovanni Blu Mitolo,
header driven configuration proposed
by Fred Larsen, released into the public domain

Related work: https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/
Compliant implementations: PJON v10.0 and following

Changelog:
- Port identification feature added
- Packet id generalization
*/
```

### PJON® Protocol specification v3.0
The PJON protocol v3.0 in local mode supports connectivity for up to 254 devices, in shared mode supports connectivity for up to 4.294.967.295 buses (groups of devices) and up to 1.090.921.692.930 devices. Thanks to its modularity, dynamic packet format, low memory footprint and low overhead (5-22 bytes) PJON can be used as an alternative to 1-Wire or i2c to connect microcontrollers with limited resources but can also be applied in place of TCP-IP to interconnect more complex networks.   

The graph below shows the conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the communication. Its goal is the interoperability of diverse systems on a wide range of media with the use of a new set of open-source protocols. The graph partitions represent abstraction layers.

```cpp  
 ______________________________________________
| 7 Application layer                          |
| Remote access, automation, data sharing      |
|______________________________________________|
| 6 Presentation layer                         |
| Encryption, encoding, data compression       |
|______________________________________________|
| 5 Session layer                              |
| Session                                      |
|______________________________________________|
| 4 Transport layer                            |
| Routing, segmentation                        |
|______________________________________________|
 You are here
 _|____________________________________________
| 3 Network layer: PJON                        |
| Addressing, error detection, reliable packet |
| transmission, multiplexing, traffic control, |
| asynchronous acknowledgement, dynamic        |
| protocol encapsulation                       |
|______________________________________________|
| 2 Data link layer: PJDL/PJDLR/PJDLS/TSDL     |
| Frame separation, collision avoidance,       |
| synchronous acknowledgement                  |
|______________________________________________|
| 1 Physical layer                             |
| Electric, radio or light impulses            |
|______________________________________________|
```

### Basic concepts
* Transmission occurs only if the communication medium is not in use
* Packet transmission is regulated by a 1 byte header
* Devices communicate through packets with a maximum length of 255 or 65535 bytes
* Every device has an equal right to transmit and receive
* Every device has a unique 1 byte id
* Every device can obtain an id if available (see [Dynamic addressing specification v1.0](/specification/PJON-dynamic-addressing-specification-v2.0.md))
* Every bus has a unique 4 bytes id
* Every device can be connected to n PJON buses
* Many buses can coexist on the same medium
* Synchronous and or asynchronous acknowledgement can be requested (see [Acknowledge specification v1.0](/specification/PJON-protocol-acknowledge-specification-v1.0.md))
* Dynamic identification of encapsulated protocols using a 2 bytes port id  

### Bus
A PJON bus is made by a group of up to 254 devices transmitting and receiving on the same medium. Communication between devices occurs through packets and it is based on fairness or on the right of each device to equally share the bandwidth available.
```cpp
 _______     _______     _______     _______
|       |   |       |   |       |   |       |
| ID 1  |   | ID 2  |   | ID 3  |   | ID 4  |
|_______|   |_______|   |_______|   |_______|
____|___________|___________|___________|___
      ___|___     ___|___     ___|___
     |       |   |       |   |       |
     | ID 5  |   | ID 6  |   | ID 7  |
     |_______|   |_______|   |_______|
```

### Bus network
A PJON bus network is the result of n buses sharing the same medium and or being interconnected with other buses through routers. On a shared medium it is required the use a 4 bytes bus id to isolate a group of devices from communication of other buses nearby, enabling many to coexist and network on the same communication medium.
```cpp  
TWO BUSES SHARING THE SAME MEDIUM

    BUS ID 0.0.0.1             BUS ID 0.0.0.2
 _______     _______         _______     _______
|       |   |       |       |       |   |       |
| ID 1  |   | ID 2  |       | ID 1  |   | ID 2  |
|_______|   |_______|       |_______|   |_______|
______|___________|______________|___________|______
       ___|___                     ___|___
      |       |                   |       |
      | ID 3  |                   | ID 3  |
      |_______|                   |_______|
```
### Router
A router is a device connected to n PJON devices or buses on n dedicated media, able to route packets from a device, a bus or a medium to another. The router can operate forwarding packets transparently and make use of a default gateway if the network has a tree topology and no loops.
```cpp
TWO BUSES CONNECTED THROUGH A ROUTER

   BUS ID 0.0.0.1                  BUS ID 0.0.0.2
 _______     _______             _______     _______
|       |   |       |           |       |   |       |
| ID 1  |   | ID 2  |           | ID 1  |   | ID 2  |
|_______|   |_______|   ______  |_______|   |_______|
_____|___________|_____|ROUTER|_____|___________|____
       ___|___         | ID 3 |        ___|___
      |       |        |______|       |       |
      | ID 3  |                       | ID 3  |
      |_______|                       |_______|
```

### Switch
A Switch is a device that forwards packets transparently between buses also if different physical layers or data-links are in use. It can depend on a default gateway to act as a leaf in a larger tree network.
```cpp
 ______             ________             ______
|      | PJDL bus  |        | PJDLR bus |      |
| ID 1 |___________| SWITCH |___________| ID 2 |
|______|           |________|           |______|
```

### Header configuration
The header is a bitmap of meta-data contained and configuration required.
```cpp
HEADER BITMASK
    1      2     3    4    5     6     7     8
 ______ ______ ____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____
|PACKET|EXT.  |CRC |PORT |ACK  | ACK |TX   |MODE |
|ID    |LENGTH|    |     |MODE |     |INFO |     |
|______|______|____|_____|_____|_____|_____|_____|
```
#### Header byte 1
* `PACKET ID` bit informs if the packet contains (value 1) or not (value 0) a 2 bytes packet id
* `EXT. LENGTH` bit informs if the packet contains 1 (value 0) or 2 (value 1) bytes length
* `CRC` bit signals which CRC is used, CRC8 (value 0) or CRC32 (value 1)
* `PORT` bit informs if the packet contains a 2 bytes port identifier (value 1) or not (value 0)
* `ACK MODE` bit signals synchronous (value 0) or asynchronous (value 1) acknowledgment mode
* `ACK` bit informs if acknowledgment is requested (value 1) or not (value 0)
* `TX INFO` bit informs if the sender info are included (value 1) or not (value 0)
* `MODE` bit informs if the packet is formatted in shared mode (value 1) or local mode (value 0)  

#### Unacceptable header configuration states for standard transmission
* `----1-0-` or `ACK MODE` bit up, and `TX INFO` down (asynchronous acknowledgement needs transmitter info)
* `-10-----` or `EXT. LENGTH` bit up and `CRC` down (CRC32 forced for packet length > 15)
* `--01----` or `ADDR.` bit up and `CRC` bit down (CRC32 forced for addressing)
* `---1--0-` or `ADDR.` bit up and `TX INFO` bit down (transmitter info necessary for addressing)

#### Unacceptable header configuration states sending a BROADCAST
* `-----1--` or `ACK` bit up (no acknowledgement supported if BROADCAST)
* `----1---` or `ACK MODE` bit up (no acknowledgement supported if BROADCAST)

`-` symbol means irrelevant bit value

### Cyclic redundancy check
PJON supports both CRC8 and CRC32 to ensure safety on a wide range of use cases and packet lengths.

#### CRC8 polynomial
```cpp
0x97 = (x + 1)(x^7 + x^6 + x^5 + x^2 + 1)^2
```
`CRC8 C2`, implicit +1 notation, source Baicheva98, is used because it has the largest possible length (119 bit) at which `HD=4` can be achieved with 8-bit CRC. Other protocols specify the use of polynomials with much lower performance like `CRC-8 0xEA` or `DOWCRC 0x8C` used by 1-Wire.

#### CRC32 polynomial
```cpp
0x82608edb = x^32 + x^26 + x^23 + x^22 + x^16 +
             x^12 + x^11 + x^10 + x^8 + x^7 +
             x^5 + x^4 + x^2 + x + 1
```
`CRC32 IEEE 802.3` bit-reversed polynomial implicit +1 notation, or `0xedb88320`, selected for its high performance on a wide range of lengths, while also being widely evaluated and accepted as a good polynomial.

#### Initial meta-data CRC8
CRC8 is calculated and appended to the initial meta-data (id, header and length) to ensure consistency, avoid false positives and the length corruption vulnerability that affects CAN (Controlled Area Network) and many other protocols.

#### End CRC8/CRC32
CRC8 is calculated on both data and meta-data and it is appended at the end of packets of up to 15 bytes length (including overhead). CRC32 is automatically used if packet length exceeds 15 bytes but can be optionally used for shorter than 15 bytes packets if higher accuracy is required.

### Packet transmission
A default local packet transmission is an optionally bidirectional communication between two devices that can be divided in 3 different phases: **channel analysis**, **transmission** and optional **response**.
```cpp
Channel analysis            Transmission               Response
 _____  _______________________________________________  _____
| C-A || ID |  HEADER  | LENGTH | CRC8 |  DATA  | CRC8 || ACK |
|-----||----|----------|--------|------|--------|------||-----|
|  0  || 12 | 00000100 |   6    |      |   64   |      ||  6  |
|_____||____|__________|________|______|________|______||_____|
```
In the channel analysis phase transmitter assess the medium's state before starting transmission to avoid collision. If the medium is free for use, transmission phase starts where the packet is entirely transmitted. The receiving device calculates CRC and starts the response phase transmitting a single byte, `PJON_ACK` (decimal 6) in case of correct data reception. If no acknowledgement is received, after an exponential back-off delay, the transmitter device retries until acknowledgement is received or a maximum number of attempts is reached and packet transmission discarded.     

Below, the same local transmission used as an example above, is formatted to be sent on a shared medium where device id `12` of bus `0.0.0.1` sends @ (decimal 64) to device id `11` of bus id `0.0.0.1`. The packet's content is prepended with the bus id of the recipient as requested by header's `MODE` bit and with the sender's bus and device id as requested by header's `TX INFO` bit.
```cpp
Channel analysis              Transmission           Response
 __  __________________________________________________  ___
|CA||ID| HEADER |LENGTH|CRC8|BUS ID|BUS ID|ID|DATA|CRC8||ACK|
|--||--|--------|------|----|------|------|--|----|----||---|
|00||12|00000111|  15  |    | 0001 | 0001 |11| 64 |    || 6 |
|__||__|________|______|____|______|______|__|____|____||___|
                            |RXINFO| TX INFO |
```

The graph below shows a packet transmission where the length is represented with 2 bytes supporting up to 65535 bytes packet length as requested by the header's `EXT. LENGTH` bit and CRC32 is used as requested by header's `CRC` bit.
```cpp
 ________________________________________________________
|ID| HEADER |LEN 1|LEN 2|CRC8|BUS ID|BUS ID|ID|DATA|CRC32|
|--|--------|-----|-----|----|------|------|--|----|-----|
|12|01100111|  0  | 19  |    | 0001 | 0001 |11| 64 |     |
|__|________|_____|_____|____|______|______|__|____|_____|
                             |RXINFO| TX INFO |
```

The graph below shows a packet transmission where a 2 bytes packet identifier is added as requested by header's `PACKET ID` bit.
```cpp
 _____________________________________________________________
|ID| HEADER |LENGTH|CRC8|BUS ID|BUS ID|ID|PACKET ID|DATA|CRC32|
|--|--------|------|----|------|------|--|---------|----|-----|
|12|10100111|  20  |    | 0002 | 0001 |11|   999   | 64 |     |
|__|________|______|____|______|______|__|_________|____|_____|
                        |RXINFO| TX INFO |            
```

### Encapsulated protocol identification
PJON supports encapsulated protocol identification by using a 2 bytes port as a protocol identifier. Thanks to this feature many protocols or applications can operate safely at the same time on the same network. Ports from `0` to `8000` are reserved to known protocols which index is present in the [known protocols list](/specification/PJON-known-protocols-list.md), ports from `8001` to `65535` are free for custom use cases. The graph below shows a packet transmission where port 8002 is inserted in the packet and header's `PORT` bit is up to signal its presence.
```cpp
 _________________________________________
|ID| HEADER |LENGTH|CRC8|PORT ID|DATA|CRC8|
|--|--------|------|----|-------|----|----|
|12|00010000|  8   |    | 8002  | 64 |    |
|__|________|______|____|_______|____|____|

```

Commit message:

PJON protocol spec graph and text update

specification/PJON-protocol-specification-v3.0.md, after:

#### Network layer
- PJON (Padded Jittering Operative Network) Protocol specification: **[v3.0](/specification/PJON-protocol-specification-v3.0.md)**
- Acknowledge specification: [v1.0](/specification/PJON-protocol-acknowledge-specification-v1.0.md)
- PJON Dynamic addressing specification: [v2.0](/specification/PJON-dynamic-addressing-specification-v2.0.md)
- PJON known protocols: [list](/specification/PJON-known-protocols-list.md)
#### Data link layer
- PJDL (Padded Jittering Data Link) specification:
[PJDL v2.0](/src/strategies/SoftwareBitBang/specification/PJDL-specification-v2.0.md) - [PJDLR v2.0](/src/strategies/OverSampling/specification/PJDLR-specification-v2.0.md) - [PJDLS v2.0](/src/strategies/AnalogSampling/specification/PJDLS-specification-v2.0.md)
- TSDL (Tardy Serial Data Link) specification: [TSDL v2.0](/src/strategies/ThroughSerial/specification/TSDL-specification-v2.0.md)
- SFSP (Secure Frame Separation Protocol) specification: [SFSP v1.0](/specification/SFSP-frame-separation-specification-v1.0.md)

```cpp
/*
Milan, Italy
Originally published: 10/04/2010
latest revision: 21/03/2018
PJON® protocol layer specification v3.0
Invented by Giovanni Blu Mitolo,
header driven configuration proposed
by Fred Larsen, released into the public domain

Related work: https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/
Compliant implementations: PJON v10.0 and following

Changelog:
- Port identification feature added
- Packet id generalization
*/
```

### PJON® Protocol specification v3.0
The PJON protocol v3.0 in local mode supports connectivity for up to 254 devices, in shared mode supports connectivity for up to 4.294.967.295 buses (groups of devices) and up to 1.090.921.692.930 devices. Thanks to its modularity, dynamic packet format, low memory footprint and low overhead (5-22 bytes) PJON can be used as an alternative to 1-Wire or i2c to connect microcontrollers with limited resources but can also be applied in place of TCP-IP to interconnect more complex networks.   

The graph below shows the conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the communication. Its goal is the interoperability of diverse systems on a wide range of media with the use of a new set of open-source protocols. The graph partitions represent abstraction layers.

```cpp  
 ______________________________________________
| 7 Application layer                          |
| Remote access, automation, data sharing      |
|______________________________________________|
| 6 Presentation layer                         |
| Encryption, encoding, data compression       |
|______________________________________________|
| 5 Session layer                              |
| Session                                      |
|______________________________________________|
 You are here
 _|____________________________________________
| 4 Transport layer: PJON                      |
| Port identification, traffic control         |
|______________________________________________|
| 3 Network layer: PJON                        |
| Bus and device identification, error         |
| detection, reliable packet transmission,     |
| routing, asynchronous acknowledgement        |
|______________________________________________|
| 2 Data link layer: PJDL/PJDLR/PJDLS/TSDL     |
| Framing, collision avoidance, synchronous    |
| acknowledgement                              |
|______________________________________________|
| 1 Physical layer                             |
| Electric, radio or light impulses            |
|______________________________________________|
```

### Basic concepts
* Transmission occurs only if the communication medium is not in use
* Packet transmission is regulated by a 1 byte header
* Devices communicate through packets with a maximum length of 255 or 65535 bytes
* Every device has an equal right to transmit and receive
* Every device has a unique 1 byte id
* Every device can obtain an id if available (see [Dynamic addressing specification v1.0](/specification/PJON-dynamic-addressing-specification-v2.0.md))
* Every bus has a unique 4 bytes id
* Every device can be connected to n PJON buses
* Many buses can coexist on the same medium
* Synchronous and or asynchronous acknowledgement can be requested (see [Acknowledge specification v1.0](/specification/PJON-protocol-acknowledge-specification-v1.0.md))
* Process or network service identifier using a 2 bytes port identification  

### Bus
A PJON bus is made by a group of up to 254 devices transmitting and receiving on the same medium. Communication between devices occurs through packets and it is based on fairness or on the right of each device to equally share the bandwidth available.
```cpp
 _______     _______     _______     _______
|       |   |       |   |       |   |       |
| ID 1  |   | ID 2  |   | ID 3  |   | ID 4  |
|_______|   |_______|   |_______|   |_______|
____|___________|___________|___________|___
      ___|___     ___|___     ___|___
     |       |   |       |   |       |
     | ID 5  |   | ID 6  |   | ID 7  |
     |_______|   |_______|   |_______|
```

### Bus network
A PJON bus network is the result of n buses sharing the same medium and or being interconnected with other buses through routers. On a shared medium it is required the use a 4 bytes bus id to isolate a group of devices from communication of other buses nearby, enabling many to coexist and network on the same communication medium.
```cpp  
TWO BUSES SHARING THE SAME MEDIUM

    BUS ID 0.0.0.1             BUS ID 0.0.0.2
 _______     _______         _______     _______
|       |   |       |       |       |   |       |
| ID 1  |   | ID 2  |       | ID 1  |   | ID 2  |
|_______|   |_______|       |_______|   |_______|
______|___________|______________|___________|______
       ___|___                     ___|___
      |       |                   |       |
      | ID 3  |                   | ID 3  |
      |_______|                   |_______|
```

### Switch
A Switch is a device that forwards packets transparently between directly connected buses also if different physical layers or data-links are in use. It can rely on a default gateway to operate as a leaf in a larger tree network.
```cpp
 ______             ________             ______
|      | PJDL bus  |        | PJDLR bus |      |
| ID 1 |___________| SWITCH |___________| ID 2 |
|______|           |________|           |______|
```

### Router
A router is a device connected to n PJON devices or buses on n dedicated media, able to route packets from a device, a bus or a medium to another. The router can operate in a network with a tree topology and no loops forwarding packets transparently. Packets can be routed between indirectly connected buses if a routing table or a default gateway is used.
```cpp
TWO BUSES CONNECTED THROUGH A ROUTER

   BUS ID 0.0.0.1                  BUS ID 0.0.0.2
 _______     _______             _______     _______
|       |   |       |           |       |   |       |
| ID 1  |   | ID 2  |           | ID 1  |   | ID 2  |
|_______|   |_______|   ______  |_______|   |_______|
_____|___________|_____|ROUTER|_____|___________|____
       ___|___         | ID 3 |        ___|___
      |       |        |______|       |       |
      | ID 3  |                       | ID 3  |
      |_______|                       |_______|
```

### Header configuration
The header is a bitmap of meta-data contained and configuration required.
```cpp
HEADER BITMASK
    1      2     3    4    5     6     7     8
 ______ ______ ____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____
|PACKET|EXT.  |CRC |PORT |ACK  | ACK |TX   |MODE |
|ID    |LENGTH|    |     |MODE |     |INFO |     |
|______|______|____|_____|_____|_____|_____|_____|
```
#### Header byte 1
* `PACKET ID` bit informs if the packet contains (value 1) or not (value 0) a 2 bytes packet id
* `EXT. LENGTH` bit informs if the packet contains 1 (value 0) or 2 (value 1) bytes length
* `CRC` bit signals which CRC is used, CRC8 (value 0) or CRC32 (value 1)
* `PORT` bit informs if the packet contains a 2 bytes port identifier (value 1) or not (value 0)
* `ACK MODE` bit signals synchronous (value 0) or asynchronous (value 1) acknowledgment mode
* `ACK` bit informs if acknowledgment is requested (value 1) or not (value 0)
* `TX INFO` bit informs if the sender info are included (value 1) or not (value 0)
* `MODE` bit informs if the packet is formatted in shared mode (value 1) or local mode (value 0)  

#### Unacceptable header configuration states for standard transmission
* `----1-0-` or `ACK MODE` bit up, and `TX INFO` down (asynchronous acknowledgement needs transmitter info)
* `-10-----` or `EXT. LENGTH` bit up and `CRC` down (CRC32 forced for packet length > 15)
* `--01----` or `ADDR.` bit up and `CRC` bit down (CRC32 forced for addressing)
* `---1--0-` or `ADDR.` bit up and `TX INFO` bit down (transmitter info necessary for addressing)

#### Unacceptable header configuration states sending a BROADCAST
* `-----1--` or `ACK` bit up (no acknowledgement supported if BROADCAST)
* `----1---` or `ACK MODE` bit up (no acknowledgement supported if BROADCAST)

`-` symbol means irrelevant bit value

### Cyclic redundancy check
PJON supports both CRC8 and CRC32 to ensure safety on a wide range of use cases and packet lengths.

#### CRC8 polynomial
```cpp
0x97 = (x + 1)(x^7 + x^6 + x^5 + x^2 + 1)^2
```
`CRC8 C2`, implicit +1 notation, source Baicheva98, is used because it has the largest possible length (119 bit) at which `HD=4` can be achieved with 8-bit CRC. Other protocols specify the use of polynomials with much lower performance like `CRC-8 0xEA` or `DOWCRC 0x8C` used by 1-Wire.

#### CRC32 polynomial
```cpp
0x82608edb = x^32 + x^26 + x^23 + x^22 + x^16 +
             x^12 + x^11 + x^10 + x^8 + x^7 +
             x^5 + x^4 + x^2 + x + 1
```
`CRC32 IEEE 802.3` bit-reversed polynomial implicit +1 notation, or `0xedb88320`, selected for its high performance on a wide range of lengths, while also being widely evaluated and accepted as a good polynomial.

#### Initial meta-data CRC8
CRC8 is calculated and appended to the initial meta-data (id, header and length) to ensure consistency, avoid false positives and the length corruption vulnerability that affects CAN (Controlled Area Network) and many other protocols.

#### End CRC8/CRC32
CRC8 is calculated on both data and meta-data and it is appended at the end of packets of up to 15 bytes length (including overhead). CRC32 is automatically used if packet length exceeds 15 bytes but can be optionally used for shorter than 15 bytes packets if higher accuracy is required.

### Packet transmission
A default local packet transmission is an optionally bidirectional communication between two devices that can be divided in 3 different phases: **channel analysis**, **transmission** and optional **response**.
```cpp
Channel analysis            Transmission               Response
 _____  _______________________________________________  _____
| C-A || ID |  HEADER  | LENGTH | CRC8 |  DATA  | CRC8 || ACK |
|-----||----|----------|--------|------|--------|------||-----|
|  0  || 12 | 00000100 |   6    |      |   64   |      ||  6  |
|_____||____|__________|________|______|________|______||_____|
```
In the channel analysis phase transmitter assess the medium's state before starting transmission to avoid collision. If the medium is free for use, transmission phase starts where the packet is entirely transmitted. The receiving device calculates CRC and starts the response phase transmitting a single byte, `PJON_ACK` (decimal 6) in case of correct data reception. If no acknowledgement is received, after an exponential back-off delay, the transmitter device retries until acknowledgement is received or a maximum number of attempts is reached and packet transmission discarded.     

Below, the same local transmission used as an example above, is formatted to be sent on a shared medium where device id `12` of bus `0.0.0.1` sends @ (decimal 64) to device id `11` of bus id `0.0.0.1`. The packet's content is prepended with the bus id of the recipient as requested by header's `MODE` bit and with the sender's bus and device id as requested by header's `TX INFO` bit.
```cpp
Channel analysis              Transmission           Response
 __  __________________________________________________  ___
|CA||ID| HEADER |LENGTH|CRC8|BUS ID|BUS ID|ID|DATA|CRC8||ACK|
|--||--|--------|------|----|------|------|--|----|----||---|
|00||12|00000111|  15  |    | 0001 | 0001 |11| 64 |    || 6 |
|__||__|________|______|____|______|______|__|____|____||___|
                            |RXINFO| TX INFO |
```

The graph below shows a packet transmission where the length is represented with 2 bytes supporting up to 65535 bytes packet length as requested by the header's `EXT. LENGTH` bit and CRC32 is used as requested by header's `CRC` bit.
```cpp
 ________________________________________________________
|ID| HEADER |LEN 1|LEN 2|CRC8|BUS ID|BUS ID|ID|DATA|CRC32|
|--|--------|-----|-----|----|------|------|--|----|-----|
|12|01100111|  0  | 19  |    | 0001 | 0001 |11| 64 |     |
|__|________|_____|_____|____|______|______|__|____|_____|
                             |RXINFO| TX INFO |
```

The graph below shows a packet transmission where a 2 bytes packet identifier is added as requested by header's `PACKET ID` bit.
```cpp
 _____________________________________________________________
|ID| HEADER |LENGTH|CRC8|BUS ID|BUS ID|ID|PACKET ID|DATA|CRC32|
|--|--------|------|----|------|------|--|---------|----|-----|
|12|10100111|  20  |    | 0002 | 0001 |11|   999   | 64 |     |
|__|________|______|____|______|______|__|_________|____|_____|
                        |RXINFO| TX INFO |            
```

### Port identification
PJON supports a process or network service identifier by using a 2 bytes port id. Thanks to this feature many protocols or applications can operate safely at the same time on the same network. Ports from `0` to `8000` are reserved to known protocols which index is present in the [known protocols list](/specification/PJON-known-protocols-list.md), ports from `8001` to `65535` are free for custom use cases. The graph below shows a packet transmission where port 8002 is inserted in the packet and header's `PORT` bit is up to signal its presence.
```cpp
 _________________________________________
|ID| HEADER |LENGTH|CRC8|PORT ID|DATA|CRC8|
|--|--------|------|----|-------|----|----|
|12|00010000|  8   |    | 8002  | 64 |    |
|__|________|______|____|_______|____|____|

```
