documentation/io-setup.md, before:

- [Addressing](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/addressing.md)
- [Configuration](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/configuration.md)
- [Data reception](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/data-reception.md)
- [Data transmission](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/data-transmission.md)
- [Error handling](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/error-handling.md)
- **[IO setup](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/io-setup.md)**

The physical layer configuration is handled by the Strategy entity, if you want to communicate bi-directionally on a single medium (using SoftwareBitBang or OverSampling), sharing transmission and reception line, use:
```cpp  
 PJON<> bus;
 bus.strategy.set_pin(12);
```

With this setup it is possible to communicate in `HALF_DUPLEX` with up to 254 different devices on the same wire.
If for some reason you need to keep separate the two lines, for example if using cheap radio transmitter and receiver modules, to which you have to connect two wires:
```cpp  
 PJON<OverSampling> bus;
 bus.strategy.set_pins(11, 12);
```

If you don't need bidirectional communication and you have only the transmitter on one side and the receiver on the other side you can use the `NOT_ASSIGNED` constant:
```cpp  
 PJON<OverSampling> bus;
 bus.strategy.set_pins(11, NOT_ASSIGNED); // Only receiver
```

See other strategies readme to have additional information on their dedicated physical layer configuration.

Commit message:

Update io-setup doc with set_communication_mode()
As suggested in https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/issues/104 it'd be a good idea to illustrate that using NOT_ASSIGNED means that we're necessarily in Simplex mode, which needs to be manually set with bus.strategy.set_communication_mode(SIMPLEX);

Adding it to the example would help new comers to PJON.

documentation/io-setup.md, after:

- [Addressing](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/addressing.md)
- [Configuration](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/configuration.md)
- [Data reception](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/data-reception.md)
- [Data transmission](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/data-transmission.md)
- [Error handling](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/error-handling.md)
- **[IO setup](https://github.com/gioblu/PJON/tree/6.1/documentation/io-setup.md)**

The physical layer configuration is handled by the Strategy entity, if you want to communicate bi-directionally on a single medium (using SoftwareBitBang or OverSampling), sharing transmission and reception line, use:
```cpp  
 PJON<> bus;
 bus.strategy.set_pin(12);
```

With this setup it is possible to communicate in `HALF_DUPLEX` with up to 254 different devices on the same wire.
If for some reason you need to keep separate the two lines, for example if using cheap radio transmitter and receiver modules, to which you have to connect two wires:
```cpp  
 PJON<OverSampling> bus;
 bus.strategy.set_pins(11, 12);
```

If you don't need bidirectional communication and you have only the transmitter on one side and the receiver on the other side you can use the `NOT_ASSIGNED` constant:
```cpp  
 PJON<OverSampling> bus;
 bus.strategy.set_communication_mode(SIMPLEX); // Tell PJON we want to operate in Simplex mode
 bus.strategy.set_pins(11, NOT_ASSIGNED); // Only receiver
```

See other strategies readme to have additional information on their dedicated physical layer configuration.
